Hello and welcome back to the course on blotching.
And today we're moving onto a new topic we're talking about signature's private and public keys.
It's very interesting watching how just as you think you've gotten your head around something something
else pops up.
So we've already covered off transactions UTX those fees and the balance with how the world works.
And now we're still in the space of transactions.
But we've got a new angle at which we need to approach it and let's do it.
Let's get straight into it.
All right so this is where we left off previously.
We understood what you are and how the balance in quotation marks is calculated even though it actually
doesn't exist and that's all nice and well but what's this diagram with this illustration asks for is
a question and the question is of privacy.
First of all by looking at this blog chain and all the transactions I can clearly see who is sending
him money like i send me money here I love send me money here and here and I can see where I'm spending
it.
I'm going to bike shop get you a fruit shop and more importantly.
So there's no privacy in that sense.
But more importantly anybody can come in and for the next blog submit a transaction where it says Adlon
sends Sahra money.
Even though Adlon and Sarah might not have no idea about it they can just put a transaction in like
that they can calculate do you check.
So it is you know so for instance cancel the whole block and calculate what loves you take so.
And just put it in there and say LUNs send Sarah x amount or Adlon says that tacker X amount which would
make more sense.
And so the question is like what well first of all when would that be possible.
Yes of course would be possible.
So what that person would do is they would submit that transaction make sure they put it like this.
They just have to calculate that the Adlon has a right at utech So to put it in there and then broadcast
and put in their temple the temple would accepted because it would calculate that you know the correct
UTX exists and then that would be broadcast to all the other members of the miners were accepted.
We were put into a blog and that one would lose the money.
So the question is how can we add privacy to this system.
How does one change ensure privacy.
So things like that don't happen and so we don't see what's going on.
Well that happens from that happens through private and public keys as look.
So when you create when you start to cryptocurrency you are assigned a private key and that is like
you or your unique identifier that is like something that you never tell to anybody.
That is just your that is like your password to your bank account.
Then from the private key you can generate a public key and a public key is something you can actually
share with others.
That's how they will send you money and that's how you will send them money while you need your private
guessable just You'll need your production to send the money.
So a public key is what you need to show others for them to send you money.
That's like the bank account the number of your bank account for now this let's just roll that analogy
for now.
You'll see that it's a bit more involved in that.
So then let's say you want to send a message by message we can mean anything like just text or in the
case of cryptocurrency.
It is the transaction.
So my message just let's understand transaction.
So you've come up with a transaction let's say sorry sounds cure old 0.7 BTC.
So there is a private key you've come up with this transaction instead of putting a strange up.
How can you use the private and public key to make it secure and private.
Well the private key is combined with the message and together they generate a signature.
So basically the private key is used to sign the message and only you know the private key.
So this is the key component that only you know the private key and therefore only you your signature
will be unique to you.
And so this message will go always with the signature.
So this transaction will travel with the signature.
And therefore anybody who encounters this message will also carry the signature although it encourages
this transaction.
Also in Canada the signature attached to it.
The only question we have left now is how can they verify that indeed it was you who signed the signature
who made the signature.
Well that's where the public key comes in.
BLOCK chains there is a verification function in the algorithm where anybody can who has the message
and the signature and your public key which you made public.
It's something you have to keep secret only the private keeps secret.
Well if they have all three components they can put them into the verification function.
And it will spit out a yes or no.
So basically what it does is it uses the public key to assess assess the signature and which is attached
the message to basically says combination signature message to confirm or deny or decline that this
message was signed by this protocol.
So basically the way to look at it is that even though from the public you cannot reverse engineer the
private key like move everything what we are doing here because it uses the shot 256 it doesn't use
the shots of orifices x files when you use an elliptic function.
It's a different function but basically just like with the shutter on 56 very similar situation that
from the pro-private key you can always deterministically generate the public key but you cannot reverse
engineer the product.
So that's why you are free to share it.
But the public key is used is used and that this function is designed in such a way that through the
public key you are able to perform this verification you're able to say if this message indeed is this
signature for this message was indeed from the private key which generated the public key so big even
though this link is not reversible.
It does allow for this to work properly.
And so therefore whenever you send a transaction on the block chain when you encourage action your you
will put the transaction into the chain or it like basically you put the transactions to the temple.
But what you will be attached always is action is the signature and the public.
And then in the end all of those components will end up on the block chain.
So always together the message of the signature and the public will end up together so that will allow
for the knowns of the miners for everybody to verify that indeed this transaction was in Ishy initiated
by the person who holds the private key.
And that is sufficient verification that indeed Sarah wants to send a loved one your loved ones to certain
ceremony or whoever was to send money because you know let's say Sarah is sending Adlon money then Sarah
has her private key she creates a transaction Saracens on one 0.1 BTC.
She signs that transaction the signature tries she has a public key.
So all of the knows that the network will use the verification function and they'll apply it to these
components which come together and they will see that indeed this signature was created by the same
private key which issued this public key.
And since this public key came from Sarah it's attached the message there we go.
That means this this transaction was carried by Sarah.
Indeed.
Yeah so that's why you definitely need to keep your private safe.
So that's the start of signature's private and public keys and in the village Torrijos we will delve
deeper into this topic.
Hope you enjoyed today's toil and I look for it see you next time.
Until then enjoy bludgeons.